README.rst, before:

.. image:: https://travis-ci.org/G-Node/python-odml.svg?branch=master
    :target: https://travis-ci.org/G-Node/python-odml
.. image:: https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/2wfvsu7boe18kwjy?svg=true
    :target: https://ci.appveyor.com/project/mpsonntag/python-odml
.. image:: https://coveralls.io/repos/github/G-Node/python-odml/badge.svg?branch=master
    :target: https://coveralls.io/github/G-Node/python-odml?branch=master

odML (Open metaData Markup Language) core library
=================================================

The open metadata Markup Language is a file based format (XML, JSON, YAML) for storing
metadata in an organised human- and machine-readable way. odML is an initiative to define
and establish an open, flexible, and easy-to-use format to transport metadata.

The Python-odML library can be easily installed via :code:`pip`. The source code is freely
available on `GitHub <https://github.com/G-Node/python-odml>`_. If you are not familiar
with the version control system **git**, but still want to use it, have a look at the
documentation available on the `git-scm website <https://git-scm.com/>`_.


Breaking changes
----------------

odML Version 1.4 introduced breaking format and API changes compared to the previous
versions of odML. Files saved in the previous format versions can be converted to a 1.4
compatible format using the version converter from the odml/tools package.

Be aware that the value dtype :code:`binary` has been removed. Incorporating actual binary
data into odML files is discouraged, provide references to the original files using the
:code:`URL` dtype instead.


Dependencies
------------

* Python 2.7 or 3.5
* Python packages:

  * enum (version 0.4.4)
  * lxml (version 3.7.2)
  * yaml (version 3.12)
  * rdflib (version >=4.2.2)

* These packages will be downloaded and installed automatically if the :code:`pip`
  method is used to install odML. Alternatively, they can be installed from the OS
  package manager. On Ubuntu, they are available as:

  * python-enum
  * python-lxml
  * python-yaml
  * python-rdflib

* If you prefer installing using the Python package manager, the following packages are
  required to build the lxml Python package on Ubuntu 14.04:

  * libxml2-dev
  * libxslt1-dev
  * lib32z1-dev


Installation
------------

The simplest way to install Python-odML is from PyPI using the pip tool::

  $ pip install odml

On Ubuntu, the pip package manager is available in the repositories as :code:`python-pip`.

If this method is used, the appropriate Python dependencies are downloaded and installed
automatically.


Building from source
--------------------

To download the Python-odML library please either use git and clone the
repository from GitHub::

  $ git clone https://github.com/G-Node/python-odml.git

If you don't want to use git download the ZIP file also provided on
GitHub to your computer (e.g. as above on your home directory under a "toolbox"
folder).

To install the Python-odML library, enter the corresponding directory and run::

  $ cd python-odml
  $ python setup.py install

**Note** The master branch is our current development branch, not all features might be
working as expected. Use the release tags instead.

Documentation
-------------

`Documentation <https://g-node.github.io/python-odml>`_

Bugs & Questions
----------------

Should you find a behaviour that is likely a bug, please file a bug report at
`the github bug tracker <https://github.com/G-Node/python-odml/issues>`_.

If you have questions regarding the use of the library, feel free to join the
`#gnode <http://webchat.freenode.net?channels=%23gnode>`_ IRC channel on freenode.

Commit message:

[README] Add breaking change release notes notice

README.rst, after:

.. image:: https://travis-ci.org/G-Node/python-odml.svg?branch=master
    :target: https://travis-ci.org/G-Node/python-odml
.. image:: https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/2wfvsu7boe18kwjy?svg=true
    :target: https://ci.appveyor.com/project/mpsonntag/python-odml
.. image:: https://coveralls.io/repos/github/G-Node/python-odml/badge.svg?branch=master
    :target: https://coveralls.io/github/G-Node/python-odml?branch=master

odML (Open metaData Markup Language) core library
=================================================

The open metadata Markup Language is a file based format (XML, JSON, YAML) for storing
metadata in an organised human- and machine-readable way. odML is an initiative to define
and establish an open, flexible, and easy-to-use format to transport metadata.

The Python-odML library can be easily installed via :code:`pip`. The source code is freely
available on `GitHub <https://github.com/G-Node/python-odml>`_. If you are not familiar
with the version control system **git**, but still want to use it, have a look at the
documentation available on the `git-scm website <https://git-scm.com/>`_.


Breaking changes
----------------

odML Version 1.4 introduced breaking format and API changes compared to the previous
versions of odML. Files saved in the previous format versions can be converted to a 1.4
compatible format using the version converter from the odml/tools package.

Be aware that the value dtype :code:`binary` has been removed. Incorporating actual binary
data into odML files is discouraged, provide references to the original files using the
:code:`URL` dtype instead.

For details regarding the introduced changes please check the `github release notes
<https://github.com/G-Node/python-odml/releases>`_.


Dependencies
------------

* Python 2.7 or 3.5
* Python packages:

  * enum (version 0.4.4)
  * lxml (version 3.7.2)
  * yaml (version 3.12)
  * rdflib (version >=4.2.2)

* These packages will be downloaded and installed automatically if the :code:`pip`
  method is used to install odML. Alternatively, they can be installed from the OS
  package manager. On Ubuntu, they are available as:

  * python-enum
  * python-lxml
  * python-yaml
  * python-rdflib

* If you prefer installing using the Python package manager, the following packages are
  required to build the lxml Python package on Ubuntu 14.04:

  * libxml2-dev
  * libxslt1-dev
  * lib32z1-dev


Installation
------------

The simplest way to install Python-odML is from PyPI using the pip tool::

  $ pip install odml

On Ubuntu, the pip package manager is available in the repositories as :code:`python-pip`.

If this method is used, the appropriate Python dependencies are downloaded and installed
automatically.


Building from source
--------------------

To download the Python-odML library please either use git and clone the
repository from GitHub::

  $ git clone https://github.com/G-Node/python-odml.git

If you don't want to use git download the ZIP file also provided on
GitHub to your computer (e.g. as above on your home directory under a "toolbox"
folder).

To install the Python-odML library, enter the corresponding directory and run::

  $ cd python-odml
  $ python setup.py install

**Note** The master branch is our current development branch, not all features might be
working as expected. Use the release tags instead.

Documentation
-------------

`Documentation <https://g-node.github.io/python-odml>`_

Bugs & Questions
----------------

Should you find a behaviour that is likely a bug, please file a bug report at
`the github bug tracker <https://github.com/G-Node/python-odml/issues>`_.

If you have questions regarding the use of the library, feel free to join the
`#gnode <http://webchat.freenode.net?channels=%23gnode>`_ IRC channel on freenode.
